Basically the exact same movie as " House of Wax " - XXXXXXXXXXXXX 's first genuine horror hit released the previous year - but seriously who cares , because " The Mad Magician " offers just as many sheer thrills , delightful period set - pieces , joyous XXX effects , sublime acting performances and macabre horror gimmicks as its predecessor ! " Never change a winning team " is exactly what writer XXXXXXXXXXXX must have thought when he penned down XXXXX 's character Don Gallico , another tormented soul besieged by fate and out for vengeance against those who wronged him . Don Gallico is about to perform his very first own illusionist show as XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX and plans to exhibit the greatest magic trick in history ; entitled " The Girl and the Buzz Saw " . Gallico 's promising solo career is abruptly ruined before it even begins when his previous employer XXXXXXXXXXX appears on stage and shoves a contract under his nose , stating that all of Gallico 's inventions are the rightful property of the company . The sleazy and relentless XXXXXX , who by the way also ransacked XXXXXXX 's once beloved wife , takes off with the buzz saw trick and programs it in the show of Gallico 's rival The Great Rinaldi . Inevitably Gallico snaps and sadistically butchers XXXXXX , but – also being a master of creating disguises – recreates his victim 's image and even starts leading a double life . " The Mad Magician " is an amusing and thoroughly unpretentious 50 's horror movie in Grand Guignol style , with a whole lot of improbably plot twists ( the landlady turns out a brilliant crime novelist ? ) and a handful of fantastically grotesque gross - out moments ( although they obviously remain suggestive for most part ) . The XXX delights near the beginning of the film , like a yo - yo player and a goofy trick with water fountains , merely just serve as time - filler and contemporary 50 's hype , but it 's still fun to watch even now and without the means to properly behold them . " The Mad Magician " is also interesting from a periodical setting point of view , as the events take place around the time fingerprints were starting to get used as evidence material and the character of XXXXXXXXXXXXXX is an obvious reference towards famous crime authors of that era . Needless to state that XXXXXXXXXXXXX remains the absolute most essential element of triumph in this film , as well as from nearly every other horror movie this legendary man ever starred in . Like no other actor could ever accomplish , XXXXX depicts the tormented protagonist who gradually descends further and further into mental madness in such an indescribably mesmerizing way . You pity Don Gallico , yet at the same time you fear him enormously . You support his vile acts of retaliation and yet simultaneously you realize his murderous rampage must end in death . XXXXXXXXXXXXX simply was a genius actor and , in my humble opinion , the embodiment of the horror genre . 